# Agent Roger

### An AI agent structured as a dynamic task tree.

### This repo also comes with a dashboard to visualize and modify the tree, improving the AI's logic in real time.

### Demo

demo pics and video go here

# What is Agent Roger?

Agent Roger is an AI system that can complete your tasks by intelligently spawning and processing its own sub-tasks.

More broadly speaking, it is a somewhat novel _implementation_ for the idea of "AI using other AI."

Its purpose is similar to that of LangChain, BabyAGI, AutoGPT, and other task-based and execution-loop-based systems.

However, there are key differences in Agent Roger:

### Serves as an application rather than a high-level framework, but is still modular enough to be expanded upon.

- Both you, the human, and your AI can define custom Tasks and sub-tasks using simple JSON text.
- Each "Stage" of a Task's lifecycle has its own logic and variables, and it's simple to code new Stages and use them to define a new Task (as JSON).
- Stages (functions) allow you to place limits on the AI. It can generate new tasks as JSON configurations using the stage functions which you provide it.

### Uses a dynamic _task tree_ instead of a queue:

- AI can delegate to arbitrary sub-tasks, branching out into sub-tasks-of-sub-tasks-of-etc.

### Task tree is _dynamic_:

- A single misstep in a sub-task does not necessarily ruin the overall task.
- A failed sub-task will try to improve until it is successful or has exhausted all reasonable options.
- User can provide feedback on a sub-task and restart a sub-tree while preserving the rest.
- Independent sub-tasks can run concurrently or even on multiple machines.

### Contains partly hard-coded optimizations for handling context and "memory" of previous experiences.

### Practically free (excepting cost of inferencing tokens) to get started:

- As of publishing this, all default database vendors have unreasonably generous free tiers, and offer reasonable pay-as-you-go pricing should you exceed the free tier limits.

### Runs orders of magnitude more inferences and logic to execute a single sub-task than do traditional systems:

- Agent Roger is made for an age when inference is relatively cheap (think 200k tokens/second at $30 USD/hr for a 50B-parameter multi-modal model).
- This repo provides a starting point for exploring the possibilities of using dynamic, concurrency-friendly task trees.
- The problem of inference (two problems: fine-tuning models and inferencing them quickly) is left to the intelligent and determined reader.

### Combines cloud resources with a lightweight `task runner` that can run on a low-end laptop, enabling it to:

- Execute bash scripts on your computer.
- Solve a pesky bug for you by searching through and editing your project files.
- [NOT YET IMPLEMENTED] Concurrently operate multiple graphical browsers with different sessions.
- [REQUIRES CUSTOMIZED INFERENCE] Develop an entirely new codebase in a specified folder.
- [REQUIRES CUSTOMIZED INFERENCE] Process large amounts of information into files on your computer (spreadsheets, word documents, powerpoints, pdfs, images)
- [REQUIRES CUSTOMIZED INFERENCE] Index your files, online accounts, messages, etc. and look for insights.
- [REQUIRES CUSTOMIZED INFERENCE] Write code to your computer, deploy it using your command line, and test it until it works.
- [REQUIRES CUSTOMIZED INFERENCE] Learn and experiment with new functionalities and patterns on its own.

### The repo includes a dashboard:

- Interactive task tree shows every thought and data point involved in your task.
- Ability to pause/modify/rerun sub-tasks.
- Modify and copy any task data to a designated db table for future use with fine-tuning your own LLM.

### Written in TypeScript:

- Uses the `zod` library for type checking, which enables better autocomplete, error handling, bug detection, etc.
- Enables the developer, the dashboard user, and the AI to be confident that any JSON data has the fields it expects -- even including custom schema generated by the AI or user.
- NOTE: If you're not using an API like OpenAI's, then you will still need to implement your own inference engine, likely using Python.

# Getting Started

The easiest way to get started is to:

1. Fork the repo.
2. Duplicate `.env.example` to a fresh `.env` (only in your local environment!).
3. Fill in the environment variables in `.env`, using the Setup Details (below) as a reference.

<details>
   <summary>Setup Details</summary>

You will need the following (free) infra, each of which can be spun up using vendors' websites:

- new Vercel app pointing at your forked GitHub repo (vercel.com)
- new PlanetScale MySQL database (planetscale.com)
- new Upstache Redis database (upstache.com)
- new Neo4J graph database (neo4j.com/auradb)
- new Clerk authentication app (clerk.com)
  - create a user, say, `adminUser`. create an organization called `admin` set its owner to the admin user.
  - only members of the `admin` organization will be able to access the dashboard.

Set environment variables:

- Use `.env.example` as a template which lists the requried environment variables.
- For local development, set correct environment variables in your `.env`.
- For deployment, set correct environment variables in the Vercel dashboard under Settings -> Environment Variables (you can copy/paste from your `.env` file).

</details>

# Deploying

1. Push to GitHub to trigger new Vercel deployment of the dashboard.

   - You can also run the dashboard on your local computer: `yarn start:dashboard`.

2. To start the Weaviate vector database:

```bash
docker-compose down # ensures database is saved to disk
docker-compose rm -f # if you want to rebuild from scratch
docker-compose up # OR, TO RUN IN BACKGROUND: docker-compose up -d
```

3. To start a task runner (can be run locally), make sure `.env` is correct and start the container:

```bash
# install external dependencies
yarn install

# build core packages
yarn run build:core

# build a docker image for task runner
yarn run build:task-runner

# RUN DOCKER CONTAINER
yarn run start:task-runner
```

<details>

   <summary>Local Deployment</summary>
   
To run the dashboard on your local computer:

```bash
# install external dependencies
yarn install

# build core packages
yarn build:weaviate-ts-client
yarn build:agent-roger-core

# START THE DASHBOARD
yarn start:dashboard
```

</details>

# MySQL Database

To change database schema:

1. Log in to planetscale.com.
2. Create a new branch of the main database and copy the credentials into your local `.env` file.
3. Change `/packages/agent-roger-core/src/db/sql-schema.ts` and other files as necessary.
4. Run `yarn workspace agent-roger-core db-push` to update the new PlanetScale branch.
5. Make any changes you need in order for the rest of the code to work with the new schema.
6. Once everything is working locally, go to the PlanetScale branch and create a new "deploy request", and then approve the deploy request to update the db main branch's schema.

# Vector Database (Weaviate)

Weaviate powers Agent Roger's context logic:

- It stores documents as vector embeddings (lists of numbers) that represent semantic meaning.
- Weaviate seems to be a good solution because it allows for both vector and traditional keyword search, and it can be self-hosted locally on a decent CPU or in the cloud.

Switching to a different vector database:

- You will need to alter a few components: new environment variables, new Tasks using new Stages for retrieving and storing context, and possibly for embedding vectors (depending on the vector length setting of the database).

# Development

NOTE: We use yarn workspaces to configure the monorepo. You might need a Yarn "Editor SDK" in order for your IDE to properly recognize imports:

- `yarn dlx @yarnpkg/sdks vscode`
- Press ctrl+shift+p in a TypeScript file
- Choose "Select TypeScript Version"
- Pick "Use Workspace Version"
- See here for more info: https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/editor-sdks#vscode

# Miscellaneous

The dashboard visualizer does not work with Brave browser's shields enabled (specifically, the "block fingerprinting" option disables click functionality for the dashboard's force graph).
